README.md, before:

# Copilots Consulting Aircraft Accidents Data Analysis 

August 2023 - 
Andrew Hendricks (AndrewHHendricks@gmail.com)
Kendall McNeil (kendallmccneil@gmail.com)

### Overview 

A company is expanding in to new industries to diversify its portfolio. Specifically, they are interested in purchasing and operating airplanes for commercial and private enterprises, but do not know anything about the potential risks of aircraft. 

Copilots Consulting is charged with determining which aircrafts are the lowest risk for the company to start this new business endeavor then translating findings into actionable insights that the head of the new aviation division can use to help decide which aircraft to purchase.

### The Data

Copilots Consulting used a dataset from the National Transportation Safety Board that includes aviation accident data from 1962 to 2023 about civil aviation accidents and selected incidents in the United States and international waters. The dataset initally included about 90,000 entries. Copilots Consulting cleaned the data, ridding the dataset of duplicates and zero engine aircrafts, such as Balloons and Gliders, and were left with about 86,500 entries for analysis.  

### Methods

After exploring correlations in the data, three major categories were isolated for analysis:
1. Engine Count
2. Engine Type
3. Aircraft Make

First, Copilots Consulting looked at the shear volume of accidents in these three major categories. Then Copilots Consulting began to normalize these values by calculating two percentages for all three major categories:
1. % of Passengers Uninjured
2. % of Aircrafts with Only Minor Damage

### Results

# 1. ENGINE COUNT

   
![1](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/7e46ef87-8635-453c-ae96-db703f93ebad)



![2](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/10467477-16b5-487a-ab16-1afa540ec733)



![3](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/a68a28e5-cf67-4745-bd70-dbe0ea751a6e)



# 2. ENGINE TYPE

![4](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/316c9d5e-1179-44ea-96bc-8150e995d5c8)



![5](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/dc4a5382-51e5-411a-a8a3-c9e7f1e2ea45)



![6](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/de6f2f1a-75e6-4f87-b77d-3559321863cf)



# 3. AIRCRAFT MAKE

   
![7](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/8fc01feb-6a94-40f2-9eaf-5a759e8b1111)



![8](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/68992100-8090-4848-800a-e91b4041ad3a)



![9](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/7f756a55-2b20-4d07-9d2c-e9b962b2e494)



### Conclusion
Based on the data analysis, Copilots Consulting recommends purchasing aircrafts that meet the following criteria:
1. 3-4 Engines
2. Turbo Jet or Turbo Fan Engines
3. Beoing, McDonnell Douglas, or Airbus Make

### Next Steps

### For More Information
Additional Links and Resources: 
1. Tableau Dashboard: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/andrew.hendricks6984/viz/CopilotsProject1Dashboard/MakeDash
2. Presentation Slides

For additional information, contact:
1. Andrew Hendricks at AndrewHHendricks@gmail.com. 
2. Kendall McNeil at kendallmmcneil@gmail.com.

Commit message:

Inserting Deck into README.md

README.md, after:

# Copilots Consulting Aircraft Accidents Data Analysis 

August 2023 - 
Andrew Hendricks (AndrewHHendricks@gmail.com)
Kendall McNeil (kendallmccneil@gmail.com)

### Overview 

A company is expanding in to new industries to diversify its portfolio. Specifically, they are interested in purchasing and operating airplanes for commercial and private enterprises, but do not know anything about the potential risks of aircraft. 

Copilots Consulting is charged with determining which aircrafts are the lowest risk for the company to start this new business endeavor then translating findings into actionable insights that the head of the new aviation division can use to help decide which aircraft to purchase.

### The Data

Copilots Consulting used a dataset from the National Transportation Safety Board that includes aviation accident data from 1962 to 2023 about civil aviation accidents and selected incidents in the United States and international waters. The dataset initally included about 90,000 entries. Copilots Consulting cleaned the data, ridding the dataset of duplicates and zero engine aircrafts, such as Balloons and Gliders, and were left with about 86,500 entries for analysis.  

### Methods

After exploring correlations in the data, three major categories were isolated for analysis:
1. Engine Count
2. Engine Type
3. Aircraft Make

First, Copilots Consulting looked at the shear volume of accidents in these three major categories. Then Copilots Consulting began to normalize these values by calculating two percentages for all three major categories:
1. % of Passengers Uninjured
2. % of Aircrafts with Only Minor Damage

### Results

### 1. Engine Count Data

   
![1](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/7e46ef87-8635-453c-ae96-db703f93ebad)



![2](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/10467477-16b5-487a-ab16-1afa540ec733)



![3](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/a68a28e5-cf67-4745-bd70-dbe0ea751a6e)



### 2. Engine Type Data

![4](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/316c9d5e-1179-44ea-96bc-8150e995d5c8)



![5](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/dc4a5382-51e5-411a-a8a3-c9e7f1e2ea45)



![6](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/de6f2f1a-75e6-4f87-b77d-3559321863cf)



### 3. Aircraft Make Data

   
![7](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/8fc01feb-6a94-40f2-9eaf-5a759e8b1111)



![8](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/68992100-8090-4848-800a-e91b4041ad3a)



![9](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/assets/139075900/7f756a55-2b20-4d07-9d2c-e9b962b2e494)



### Conclusion
Based on the data analysis, Copilots Consulting recommends purchasing aircrafts that meet the following criteria:
1. 3-4 Engines
2. Turbo Jet or Turbo Fan Engines
3. Beoing, McDonnell Douglas, or Airbus Make

### Next Steps

For next steps, Copilots Consulting recommends looking into airplane data overall and data pertaining to aircraft finances and profitability. However, the analysis on accident data performed here is a great starting point for identifying lowrisk aircrafts. 

### For More Information
Additional Links and Resources: 
1. Tableau Dashboard: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/andrew.hendricks6984/viz/CopilotsProject1Dashboard/MakeDash
2. Presentation Slides

   [Copilots Consulting_Aircraft Accident_Data Analysis_Deck.pdf](https://github.com/ahendricks2/dsc-phase-1-project-v3/files/12441123/Copilots.Consulting_Aircraft.Accident_Data.Analysis_Deck.pdf)


For additional information, contact:
1. Andrew Hendricks at AndrewHHendricks@gmail.com. 
2. Kendall McNeil at kendallmmcneil@gmail.com.
